

## Inputs and Outputs redirect

Input and output redirection in Linux is a powerful built-in shell feature that lets you alter where a command reads its data from and where it sends its results. By default, commands accept input from your keyboard and print their regular output and error messages to your terminal screen. Redirection symbols override these defaults by routing data to or from files, devices, or other commands.

### The three standard streams

Every process run in Linux automatically opens three data channels, known as standard streams:

- **Standard Input (STDIN / File Descriptor 0)**: Handles incoming data, defaulting to the keyboard.
- **Standard Output (STDOUT / File Descriptor 1)**: Handles regular program output, defaulting to the terminal screen.
- **Standard Error (STDERR / File Descriptor 2)**: Handles error messages separately from standard data, defaulting to the terminal screen.

### Output redirection (`>` and `>>`)

Output redirection intercepts data meant for the terminal screen and saves it into a file instead.

- **Overwrite** (`>`): Overwrites the file completely if it already exists or creates a new one if it does not. eg. `echo "Hello World" > output.txt`
- **Append** (`>>`): Adds the output to the bottom of the file without erasing its existing content. eg. `echo "Adding a new line" >> output.txt`

### Input redirection (`<`, `<<` and `<<<`)

Input redirection forces a command to pull data from an external source rather than waiting for typing on a keyboard.

- Read File (`<`): Feeds the complete contents of an existing file into a command. eg. `wc -l < output.txt`
- Here-Doc (`<<`): Permits passing multi-line strings directly into a script or command until a specific end delimiter is typed.

eg.
```
cat << EOF
This is line one.
This is line two.
EOF
```

- Here-String (<<<): Feeds a single text string directly into the command's input channel. eg. `grep "active" <<< "The service status is active"`

### Handling Errors (2> and &>)

Because errors use a separate channel (File Descriptor 2), a standard > will not capture them. You must handle errors explicitly:

- Redirect Errors (`2>`): Saves only the error messages generated by a failed command into a file. eg. `ls /non_existent_folder 2> error.log`
- Redirect Everything (`&>`): Captures both standard terminal messages (STDOUT) and error logs (STDERR) into a single file. eg. `command &> all_output.log`
- Merge Streams (`2>&1`): Merges the error stream into the standard output stream so they can be processed or routed together. eg. `command > output.log 2>&1`

### The Black Hole (`/dev/null`)

When you want to silence a noisy program, you can route its output straight to /dev/null. This is a special, virtual system file that acts like a black hole, instantly deleting everything sent to it.

eg. `cron_job.sh > /dev/null 2>&1`











